# JHDS-Cleaning-Data

Assignment description:
You should create one R script called run_analysis.R that does the following. 

1.  Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.

2.  Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
 
3.  Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
 
4.  Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 

5.  From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

run_Analysis.R reads and merges the training and test data sets.

The columns with mean and standard deviation were identified manually (the material on GREP was covered in week 4, while this assignment was due at the end of week 3) and retained in a smaller data frame named "hw_set"

The levels of activity were associated with the "activity" column and expanded names were associated with the columns.

THe means generated by "subject" and "activity" were exported into a tidy data set.



Submission part 1:
Please upload the tidy data set created in step 5 of the instructions. Please upload your data set as a txt file created with write.table() using row.name=FALSE (do not cut and paste a dataset directly into the text box, as this may cause errors saving your submission).

tidy_set.txt loaded into Coursera

Submission part 2:
Please submit a link to a Github repo with the code for performing your analysis. The code should have a file run_analysis.R in the main directory that can be run as long as the Samsung data is in your working directory. The output should be the tidy data set you submitted for part 1. You should include a README.md in the repo describing how the script works and the code book describing the variables.

This is the README.md file.
codebook.rm attached as separate file in repository.
#set the working directory to the UCI HAR dataset folder with test and train as the subfolders before executing the script.

Evaluation criteria:
Did the student submit a Github repo with the required scripts?

yes

Was code book submitted to GitHub that modifies and updates the codebooks available to you with the data to indicate all the variables and summaries you calculated, along with units, and any other relevant information?

yes

I was able to follow the README in the directory that explained what the analysis files did. 

hopefully

